docs: automated address management (#18433)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/concepts/sui-move-concepts/packages/automated-address-management.mdx

---
title: Automated Address Management
---

> When you publish or upgrade a package, its address (also known as the package ID) is tracked in the `Move.lock` file. This bookkeeping is done automatically so that you can avoid recording or updating hex addresses (e.g., in the `Move.toml` file). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you publish or upgrade a package, its address (also known as the package ID) is tracked in the `Move.lock` file. This bookkeeping is done automatically so that you can avoid recording or updating hex addresses (for example, in the `Move.toml` file). 
```
Style guide thing. Avoid latin abbreviations for simplicity.

> When you publish or upgrade your package on multiple chains (e.g., `mainnet`, `testnet`, `devnet`) separate addresses for each chain will be tracked for you. This tracking is based on your active environment (e.g., run `sui client active-env`). For example, if you set your active environment to an RPC connected to `testnet` and publish a package, the `Move.lock` will record the address for that package and associate it with your active environment (`testnet`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you publish or upgrade your package on multiple chains (Mainnet, Testnet, Devnet) separate addresses for each chain are tracked for you. This tracking is based on your active environment (run `sui client active-env` if unsure). For example, if you set your active environment to an RPC connected to `testnet` and publish a package, the `Move.lock` records the address for that package and associates it with your active environment (`testnet`).
```
I think that first reference to networks should be regular but wouldnt hate it remaining lowercase in ticks.

> Note that automated address management works for one package published to one or more chains. When you publish or upgrade, it uses the contents of the package's working directory. If a package is republished to a chain, addresses tracked for the previously published package will be overwritten for that chain.

Author: Part of this is trying to convey: "no source versioning is involved here", but I hesitate to import mention of "source versioning" to spare potential confusion.

> Note that automated address management works for one package published to one or more chains. When you publish or upgrade, it uses the contents of the package's working directory. If a package is republished to a chain, addresses tracked for the previously published package will be overwritten for that chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that automated address management works for one package published to one or more chains. When you publish or upgrade, address management uses the contents of the package's working directory. If a package is republished to a chain, addresses tracked for the previously published package are overwritten for that chain.
```

## Adopting automated address management for published packages

> Previously a `published-at` entry was **mandatory** in the `Move.toml` file, which sets the address of the latest published package. It is no longer required if this data is tracked in the `Move.lock` file. For an existing package, you'll need to add the necessary data to the `Move.lock` file so that it can be automatically tracked:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously a `published-at` entry was **mandatory** in the `Move.toml` file, which sets the address of the latest published package. It is no longer required if this data is tracked in the `Move.lock` file. For an existing package, add the necessary data to the `Move.lock` file so that it can be automatically tracked:
```

1. Switch to your active environment for the chain that your package is published on

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
These next several suggestions should make the nested list and nested code work better. As is, it's creating separate `ol` elements that can mess up numbering if more items are added later. Basically, anything that should go under the list item have to be indented (two tabs worth usually gets it).

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ```
```

> sui client --switch --env <YOUR-CHAIN-ENVIRONMENT>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      sui client --switch --env <YOUR-CHAIN-ENVIRONMENT>
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ```
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 2. Run the `manage-package` command with the data for your published package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the `manage-package` command with the data for your published package
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ```
```

> sui move manage-package --environment "$(sui client active-env)" \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      sui move manage-package --environment "$(sui client active-env)" \
```

                        --network-id "$(sui client chain-identifier)" \
                        --original-id 'ORIGINAL-ADDRESS' \
                        --latest-id 'LATEST-ADDRESS' \
                        --version-number 'VERSION-NUMBER'

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ```
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - `ORIGINAL-ADDRESS` should be the address your package was first published at. If you never upgraded your package, this the same address as your `published-at` address in the `Move.toml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `ORIGINAL-ADDRESS` should be the address your package was first published at. If you never upgraded your package, this the same address as your `published-at` address in the `Move.toml`
```

> - `LATEST-ADDRESS` should be the latest package address. If you never upgraded your package, it is the same as `ORIGINAL-ADDRESS`. If you upgraded your package, this is the same address as your current `published-at` address in the `Move.toml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `LATEST-ADDRESS` should be the latest package address. If you never upgraded your package, it is the same as `ORIGINAL-ADDRESS`. If you upgraded your package, this is the same address as your current `published-at` address in the `Move.toml`.
```

> - `VERSION-NUMBER` is `1` if you never upgraded your package. Otherwise, it is a number greater than `1` depending on how many times you upgraded your package. In this case, look up the package at `LATEST-ADDRESS` to determine the version number.

Reviewer: Does this increment by one each time or is there some other calculation?

Author: For context, this section talks about what values to put in for these entries for already-published packages (like `VERSION-NUMBER`). For an alread-published package, this number can be anything from 1, 2, 3, ... or up. The number depends on how many times a user has upgraded their package in the past.

So: The number is always incremented by one when a user upgrades a package. When they are recording the current state of the `VERSION-NUMBER` here, that number depends on how many times they've upgraded (i.e., incremented) the version number in the past.

> - `VERSION-NUMBER` is `1` if you never upgraded your package. Otherwise, it is a number greater than `1` depending on how many times you upgraded your package. In this case, look up the package at `LATEST-ADDRESS` to determine the version number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `VERSION-NUMBER` is `1` if you never upgraded your package. Otherwise, it is a number greater than `1` depending on how many times you upgraded your package. In this case, look up the package at `LATEST-ADDRESS` to determine the version number.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 3. Delete the `published-at` line in your `Move.toml`. Your package is now tracked. You can repeat the above steps to track addresses for additional environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Delete the `published-at` line in your `Move.toml`. Your package is now tracked. You can repeat the above steps to track addresses for additional environments.
```

> ## Package Upgrade Guidance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Package upgrade guidance
```

> - When [upgrading](./upgrade#upgrade-requirements), you will need to retrieve the `UpgradeCap` ID of your published package. Automated address management does not track your `UpgradeCap`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When [upgrading](./upgrade#upgrade-requirements), you need to retrieve the `UpgradeCap` ID of your published package. Automated address management does not track your `UpgradeCap`.
```

> - When [upgrading](./upgrade#example), you will first need to set the `[addresses]` value for your package to `0x0` in the `Move.toml`, and restore its ID with the `ORIGINAL-ADDRESS` after upgrading.

Author: As mentioned, this should soon be unnecessary, just reflecting accuracy right now.

> - When [upgrading](./upgrade#example), you will first need to set the `[addresses]` value for your package to `0x0` in the `Move.toml`, and restore its ID with the `ORIGINAL-ADDRESS` after upgrading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When [upgrading](./upgrade#example), you first need to set the `[addresses]` value for your package to `0x0` in the `Move.toml`, and restore its ID with the `ORIGINAL-ADDRESS` after upgrading.
```

## Troubleshooting

> Conflicting published package addresses may happen when the state of package data is inconsistent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conflicting published package addresses might happen when the state of package data is inconsistent.
```

> For example, you may have an existing package with a `published-at` value in the `Move.toml`. The package is re-published for testing purposes, and is now tracked in `Move.lock` with automated address management. The address in the `Move.toml` and `Move.lock` now differ, and there will be an error the next time you try to publish or upgrade the package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you might have an existing package with a `published-at` value in the `Move.toml`. The package is re-published for testing purposes, and is now tracked in `Move.lock` with automated address management. The address in the `Move.toml` and `Move.lock` now differ, and there will be an error the next time you try to publish or upgrade the package.
```

Here are steps to remediate conflicting addresses:

- If the conflict is in a package you maintain:
  - Delete the `published-at` value in your `Move.toml` if this published address is no longer needed
  - Alternatively, follow the steps to [adopt automated address management](#adopting-automated-address-management-for-published-packages)

> - If the conflict is in a package that you do not maintain (e.g., a dependency), consider fixing the issue locally with the steps above, or contacting the maintainer to upstream changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the conflict is in a package that you do not maintain (such as a dependency), consider fixing the issue locally with the steps above, or contacting the maintainer to upstream changes.
```

## Internal reference

> This section is an overview of the schema and internal operation of tracked address in the `Move.lock` file. The ordinary developer does not need to understand these internals. It is a reference for those who want a complete interface or control to internal state tracking.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section is an overview of the schema and internal operation of managed addresses in the `Move.lock` file. The ordinary developer does not need to understand these internals. It is a reference for those who want a complete interface or control to internal state tracking.
```

> This section is an overview of the schema and internal operation of tracked address in the `Move.lock` file. The ordinary developer does not need to understand these internals. It is a reference for those who want a complete interface or control to internal state tracking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section is an overview of the schema and internal operation of tracked address in the `Move.lock` file. Most developers do not need to understand these internals. It is a reference for those who want a complete interface or control to internal state tracking.
```
Might read offensively to the more sensitive ordinary developers ;)

A concrete example of the schema and state you might find in a `Move.lock` file:

```toml
[env]

[env.testnet]
chain-id = "4c78adac"
original-published-id = "0xa6041ac57f9151d49d00dcdc4f79f8c5ba1e399e1005dcb0fdd1c8632020d5a6"
latest-published-id = "0xa6041ac57f9151d49d00dcdc4f79f8c5ba1e399e1005dcb0fdd1c8632020d5a6"
published-version = "1"

[env.mainnet]
chain-id = "35834a8a"
original-published-id = "0xaee5759aedf6c533634cdd2de412f6e6dfc754a89b0ec554a73597348f334477"
latest-published-id = "0xaee5759aedf6c533634cdd2de412f6e6dfc754a89b0ec554a73597348f334477"
published-version = "1"
```

> Notes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info
```

- An `[env]` table contains entries for each environment. When a package is published for an active environment, an entry is added or updated.
 

> - An entry is added or updated based on its the `chain-id` of the environment. I.e., addresses are keyed by `chain-id`, not the `[env.NAME]` part. This is so that packages and their dependencies are resolved canonically by chain identifier: keying by `[env.NAME]` is not robust when users may choose arbitrary environment `NAME` aliases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An entry is added or updated based on its the `chain-id` of the environment. As in, addresses are keyed by `chain-id`, not the `[env.NAME]` part. This is so that packages and their dependencies are resolved canonically by chain identifier: keying by `[env.NAME]` is not robust when users can choose arbitrary environment `NAME` aliases.
```

> - Key-value entries correspond to data explained in [adopting automated address management](#adopting-automated-address-management-for-published-packages). Use the `sui move manage-package` command as a frontend to manipulate these values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Key-value entries correspond to data explained in [adopting automated address management](#adopting-automated-address-management-for-published-packages). Use the `sui move manage-package` command as a frontend to manipulate these values.
:::
```
This suggestion would only be necessary if you accept the one for 79.
